# Symbol file (SYM)

The *.sym* files serve as repositories for the symbols generated and inscribed into the *.umc* file during compilation. They are invaluable for debugging purposes, enabling verification of the accurate generation and placement of all symbols.

## Usage

The symbol file is intended for debugging purposes and should only be used during the development process. Each symbol is associated
with a unique location that helps locate the corresponding entry in the lookup table and its value within the *.umc* file. The hexadecimal
location format facilitates faster lookup, especially when using hex viewer tools. It also enables verification that all symbols were included
in the *.umc* file and no messages were skipped or discarded.

It's important to note that when you specify the `--discard-empty` or `-d` option in the compiler, empty messages will not be compiled,
resulting in their symbols not appearing in the symbol file.

## File structure

The file content is completly stored as plain text and consists of two sections: comment and symbols. The comment section stores
information such as the version of the compiler that generated the symbol file. It is stored in the following format:

```
// generated by ULPCL <version> on <date>
```

Symbols are stored line-by-line in the following format:

```
(<id-location>, <value-location>): <symbol>
```

The locations are represented in hexadecimal numbers and are absolute, meaning that they are calculated from the beginning of the file.